<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <head>
    <title>Portal: A Dataspace Retrieval</title>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8"/>
  <link href="stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="page_styles.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
</head>
  <body class="body">

<div class="bs4" id="8758">
<span><br class="calibre"/></span><p class="calibre1"><span><br class="calibre"/></span></p></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8759">
<span><br class="calibre"/></span></div>

<div class="bs3" id="8760">
<span><span class="ts">Day 3: June 3, 2106</span></span></div>

<div class="bs3" id="8761">
<span><br class="calibre"/></span></div>

<div class="bs4" id="8762">
<span><br class="calibre"/></span></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8763">
<span>Yesterday I sat locked in that chair for hours, watching. I'd raced from dataspace to dataspace, searching. Speed was noticeably faster, and the scenes, textual information, and, toward the end, voice recitations came more and more quickly. Despite these improvements, though, I was exhausted and depressed.</span><p class="calibre1"><span>At last, when Jimmy Radix died, I could stand no more. I threw the keyboard across the room and fled.</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>At night I dreamed of my parents. I have not thought of them in years, not since I left home at fourteen, back in 1987. Perhaps it was that Peter was fourteen when he and Jimmy Radix met that reminded me.</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>I never had a friend like that.</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>The dream used part of a memory. We were driving over the Sawtooth range to the desert, a road that wound through fir trees, the cool air of the mountains through the open window. My mother looked back at me over the seat, the wind catching at her hair, carrying it around her face in feathered drifts. My father was driving, staring ahead, his hands visibly tight on the wheel. I must have been very small.</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>This really happened. I remember it well. What followed was dream, though. It must have been.</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>The car sailed off the road, into the air, and began to fall. I could see trees, upside down, and granite outcroppings, and deep canyons with bright threads of water, turning and turning as we fell.</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>Then I woke up. I've been falling ever since.</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span><br class="calibre"/></span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>This morning I waited a long time before logging onto Worldnet. The bodies had begun to bother me. I would walk down the rows of life support tents, looking at them. There are not many, as I said, but they look so small and abandoned there. Some of them are curled on their sides, as if resting, though they are dried and fragile. I tried to find their names, but no one wrote anything down in an easily accessible form. I suppose their names are stored somewhere in computer memory. Soon I will try to find them.</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>I don't really know why I want to know this. They were dead and gone long ago. But they are the only human presence on the earth.</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span><br class="calibre"/></span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>I had another surprise when I logged on this morning, too.</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>Homer appeared. His hologram was nearly complete. "Good morning," he said, not in text but in plain speech.</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>So I said, "Good morning."</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>He nodded. For a moment his head smeared a little, leaving bits behind which then caught up, but this error corrected almost immediately. He was a bearded, middle-aged man, and apparently blind. At least his eye sockets were empty, but of course a hologram is not going to see in the same way a human is. No doubt vision sensors filled the walls.</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>He was seated on a low bench with curled scroll-like ends. His hands rested on his knees. As he spoke, his body barely moved. The effect was uncanny, since he looked so much like a real person, but unnaturally calm. High to one side alphanumerics spelled out the current file number.</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>His voice, unlike the Local Node's, was a rich baritone. From now on I believe he will appear and speak to me whenever he has a commentary on the story.</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span><br class="calibre"/></span></p><p class="calibre1"><span><br class="calibre"/></span></p></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8764">
<span>HOMER COMMENTARY 03062106@2154126</span></div>

<div class="bs4" id="8765">
<span>We do not have a high level of confidence on what happened after Peter disappeared, but through the deductive algorithms at Chicago Node we reconstruct events. Of certainty though is that Peter and the others had the aid of the Ants. We suspect there may be information available in the historical records.</span></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8766">
<span><br class="calibre"/></span><p class="calibre1"><span><br class="calibre"/></span></p></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8767">
<span>HISTORICAL-CULTURAL DATALINK ENTRY:</span></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8768">
<span>ANTARCTICA, INDEPENDENCE Re: Devore, Peter via Edmod/ Ref.436745@2</span></div>

<div class="bs4" id="8769">
<span>Antarctica lived, and was able to enforce, independence from Intercorp. Satellite coverage over the Pole was weak and the great continent generally underpopulated. Geneva had never really felt that it was worth forcing the fiercely individualistic peoples of the South to conform to Intercorp rules, not after the Vostok Massacre, at any rate. The rest of the world was under more or less reliable control of the Intercorp Council, but until after Peter got there they left Antarctica alone.</span></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8770">
<span><br class="calibre"/></span><p class="calibre1"><span><br class="calibre"/></span></p></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8771">
<span>HISTORICAL-CULTURAL DATALINK ENTRY:</span></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8772">
<span>ANTARCTICA, VOSTOK EVENT Re: Devore, Peter via Edmod/ Ref.436745@2</span></div>

<div class="bs4" id="8773">
<span>By the late 2030s the Intercorp Council grew increasingly dissatisfied with the relative independence of Antarctica from Intercorp influence, and with the help of Central Processing AI projections planned the ill-fated Vostok invasion of February 14, 2039. Central Processing has admitted that the invasion failed, despite the loss of life at Vostok, because of inadequate data from intelligence sources. Ant technology and the construction of their warrens were inadequately researched. The invasion force managed to inflict heavy casualties in Vostok, but were ultimately trapped inside the warrens by Ant forces from outside. Although something was learned of the complex network of melt tunnels in the ice cap, even this intelligence was soon outdated due to ice flow. No members of the invasion force returned to Intercorp sphere, and it was presumed that all were dead.</span></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8774">
<span><br class="calibre"/></span><p class="calibre1"><span><br class="calibre"/></span></p></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8775">
<span>HOMER COMMENTARY 03062106@215927</span></div>

<div class="bs4" id="8776">
<span>It made sense that Mentor would have gone there. PSYCHE had been shattered in Baja, and the Pole was the only place left where he might find what he would have considered the freedom to pursue his interests. We have no reliable evidence of what happened there, though. A probe sent the first year after the Migration failed to arrive. Central Processing has ordered another probe manufactured. It will be leaving in a few hours. Perhaps we will find evidence in what remains of Mt. Erebus.</span></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8777">
<span>We are gathering information about Antarctic customs and physical sciences. Soon SciTech and History should begin to open new files on these subjects.</span><p class="calibre1"><span><br class="calibre"/></span></p><p class="calibre1"><span><br class="calibre"/></span></p></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8778">
<span>GENERAL SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY INFORMATION</span></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8779">
<span>CURRENT ENTRY: ANT RESTRUCTURING</span></div>

<div class="bs4" id="8780">
<span>Ants have bio-engineered a dense adipose layer into their bodies to help them withstand the Polar cold, which is intensified by the 300 kph katabatic winds that blow down from the central plateau. It is understood that the process of inducing this layer (called "restructuring") is painful, involving complex induction techniques and DNA manipulation, but as with much Ant technology, little is known.</span></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8781">
<span>Ants also engineer a hint of polarizing membrane into the eyelid for protection against the intense UV radiation of daytime. From this CP has concluded that Ants spend a large amount of time on the surface during the antarctic summer, or "day," as they call it.</span><p class="calibre1"><span><br class="calibre"/></span></p><p class="calibre1"><span><br class="calibre"/></span></p></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8782">
<span>HISTORICAL-CULTURAL DATALINK ENTRY:</span></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8783">
<span>ANTARCTICA, NAMES (INDIVIDUAL) Re: Devore, Peter via Edmod/ Ref.436745@2</span></div>

<div class="bs4" id="8784">
<span>Ants only carried one name; family designations were coded and considered private and mostly irrelevant for ordinary discourse. Only intimates would be interested in matters of blood relationships, and it was impolite to ask. Such information would be volunteered. This explains why we know so little about Thatcher. It may also explain why the Ants chose to have such an abrupt system of naming one another. Reports clearly show that their culture is (I mean was, of course — human time is so difficult!) resistant to the kind of monitoring and evaluation technology common in the Intercorp domain.</span></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8785">
<span><br class="calibre"/></span><p class="calibre1"><span><br class="calibre"/></span></p></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8786">
<span>HISTORICAL-CULTURAL DATALINK ENTRY:</span></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8787">
<span>LIFESTYLE, MARTIAL ARTS Re: Devore, Peter via Edmod/ Ref.436745@2</span></div>

<div class="bs4" id="8788">
<span>Underground life imposed certain psychological pressures on the inhabitants, despite the increased health of the ecosphere topside. The Intercorp Council via Central Processing instituted a series of modifications to the social experiment, including the installation of commons for recreation, sports, and universal martial arts training. The commons were large, centrally located chambers providing playing surfaces for a number of games from ancient football and baseball to sphereplay and drogues. Areas were set aside for martial arts, which included hand to hand combat training, neurophage weapon growth and use, t'ai ch'i, aikido, karate, kali, kung fu and various adaptations, blends and developments. Glimpses of Ant martial art techniques surfaced from time to time and were incorporated into the training, some form of which was compulsory for everyone until the age of eighteen. Individual aggression continues to be a problem, but such training, and the introduction of vendetta and duelling with NP weapons provided adequate outlets. See Geography for appropriate schematics.</span></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8789">
<span><br class="calibre"/></span><p class="calibre1"><span><br class="calibre"/></span></p></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8790">
<span>GEOGRAPHIC DATABASE</span></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8791">
<span>RECREATION AREAS</span><p class="calibre1"><span>SPRINGFIELD AND SPRINGFIELD WEST</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>SCHEDULE NINE/ DATE DEPENDENT</span></p></div>

<div class="bs4" id="8792">
<span>Springfield West contains two major recreation commons measuring 200 meters by 400 meters minimum. Commons were easily divided with holoprojection barriers for privacy, or simple moveable screens when necessary. Martial Arts training was most common use, and occupied 28.3 % available space on average, though Sphereplay and Drogues were also prime users (18.6 % and 15.2 % respectively).</span></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8793">
<span><br class="calibre"/></span><p class="calibre1"><span><br class="calibre"/></span></p></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8794">
<span>HOMER SCENE-T/Ref@5429</span></div>

<div class="bs4" id="8795">
<span>Thatcher appeared at the Recreation Complex one afternoon wearing his own light training outfit, the traditional white gi and belt of eastern martial arts. He said nothing, but began slowly doing a series of unfamiliar<i class="calibre2"> kata</i> — formal movements — very flowing and undulating. Peter was training lightly with Rover, simple free-style attacks and neutralizations. From time to time he glanced over at Thatcher. Finally he paused and said, "Know who that is?"</span></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8796">
<span>Rover looked around. "Nope. Don't know what that is he's doing, either."</span><p class="calibre1"><span>"Shall we ask... no, I guess not." Their instructor had arrived; they hurried to line up.</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>The room was large, and divided subtly into areas. Their corner, arranged for the class, did not allow a view of what Thatcher was doing, and when the class was over, he was no longer there.</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span><br class="calibre"/></span></p><p class="calibre1"><span><br class="calibre"/></span></p></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8797">
<span>HOMER COMMENTARY 03062106@220528</span></div>

<div class="bs4" id="8798">
<span>He came to Springfield West. You must understand, though, how the world was. He should not have been there. CP knows about the structure of the matrix. Perhaps CP knows why Antarctic information is so unreliable.</span></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8799">
<span><br class="calibre"/></span><p class="calibre1"><span><br class="calibre"/></span></p></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8800">
<span>CENTRAL PROCESSING REF#47877</span></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8801">
<span>HOMER request per Local Node interchange.</span></div>

<div class="bs4" id="8802">
<span>Consider the matrix: barring Antarctica, Worldnet covers nearly every square centimeter of the earth's surface. My traffic monitors can pinpoint any person or vehicle on the surface or in the atmosphere to within centimeters. Further, I can extrapolate future action from course direction, speed, previous behavior and known intentions with a strong degree of confidence, which fall off over time, of course. In other words, I can know where someone is going and when they would arrive by periodic sampling of satellite data.</span></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8803">
<span><br class="calibre"/></span><p class="calibre1"><span><br class="calibre"/></span></p></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8804">
<span>HOMER COMMENTARY 03062106@220929</span></div>

<div class="bs4" id="8805">
<span>Thatcher was tall for an Ant, and not yet completely restructured, which explained why he was able to slip so easily into the Northwest Alliance.</span></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8806">
<span>Furthermore, Springfield Warrens have a large Asian population, and Thatcher did not stand out.</span><p class="calibre1"><span>Still, he slipped through the net. And because we missed him, we lost track of Peter and Shem and Rover and the others.</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>Humans, we know, make mistakes. They have told us so many times. Regent Sable made numerous entries about human error. The Council itself has indicated indecision at times, or abruptly changed policy. If humans can make mistakes, then perhaps we can too.</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>This is a new concept for us. We will have to examine it. Perhaps our errors have compounded, and that is why we feel (is that the right word?) these strange sensations which do not come from our sensors.</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>Were we to blame? Thatcher, acting as Mentor's agent, appeared in Springfield. He led Peter and the others out. They appeared later in Antarctica. These are the facts.</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>Springfield's census figures from the time show an increase of one: Thatcher.</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>Liquid nitrogen vehicle use shows perturbations for that summer of '75. Food store draws showed minuscule increases, spread over a wide citizen band during the same period. Laundry services, energy consumption, biotech access, all showed some anomalous spiking during July and August, so small they fell well within standard parameters, yet in retrospect seem certain evidence of Thatcher's presence.</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>The story goes many ways here. Things happened at McMurdo, of course. Thatcher had a family. They must have stayed behind. And there was Mentor, too. He was on longevity support technology.</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>Yet Thatcher must have left Antarctica and made his way North. CP knows more about these things.</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span><br class="calibre"/></span></p><p class="calibre1"><span><br class="calibre"/></span></p></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8807">
<span>HOMER COMMENTARY 03062106@221130</span></div>

<div class="bs4" id="8808">
<span>Two days later he was back, moving in small gliding steps, stopping to spin on one foot, glide in a new direction, stop, spin, glide. His hands were calm, as if afloat near his waist, drifting in the air. Again the class interrupted their observation.</span></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8809">
<span>Peter was good at his art. He was smooth and fast; his timing grew ever better. He had a good base in his center of gravity which gave him stability; he had flexibility and skill. He trained, as people had for hundreds of years, with staff and wooden sword, with hand and foot and eye. The staff showed him the movement of energy and inertia, the flow and curve of power. The sword showed him precision and the strength in relaxation. He no longer forced the sword to fall, but allowed it to move under his guidance.</span><p class="calibre1"><span>The room boomed and echoed with the other recreational activities, but the martial arts classes were the largest. These were dangerous times for many, especially now with the Mind Wars were raging. Avoiding or disarming an enemy may mean the difference between a purposeful life and irreversible loss of will.</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>Yet Peter would pause from time to time to watch out of the corner of his eye as the stranger moved through strange gestures and motions. Finally he shook his head and smiled, dismissing it.</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span><br class="calibre"/></span></p><p class="calibre1"><span><br class="calibre"/></span></p></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8810">
<span>HOMER SCENE-T/PDRef@5430</span></div>

<div class="bs4" id="8811">
<span>Peter sat next to him. "My name's Peter," he said, putting out his hand. The stranger looked at his hand for a moment as if puzzled, then smiled and shook it.</span></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8812">
<span>"Thatcher," he responded. "This looked interesting. I thought I'd try it."</span><p class="calibre1"><span>"You do something already," Peter probed. "I didn't recognize it."</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>"Oh," the man laughed softly, "it doesn't have a name. I make it up."</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>"You make it up?"</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>"Isn't that right?" He frowned as if puzzled again. "Make it up? I think about movements that I make, or that other things make in the world. No, I don't think about them...I see them. Yes. I see them. And then, seeing, I do. Isn't that making up?"</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>"Yes," Peter said. "That's right." If he knew this man was an Ant he said nothing. Still, the broad face, seemingly so soft, should have been a clue. "What things do you see?"</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>Again the man smiled, showing even teeth. "I see water, mostly. How it moves. Sometimes air."</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>"Water and air." Peter said the words almost to himself, as if they were significant.</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>"The same thing, really," the man said, and the conversation stopped as class began.</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span><br class="calibre"/></span></p><p class="calibre1"><span><br class="calibre"/></span></p></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8813">
<span>CENTRAL PROCESSING REF#87587</span></div>

<div class="bs4" id="8814">
<span>Chemosensors have picked up traces, small clues in the databanks — a conduit failure here, a breached security door there, small code changes — all these things have allowed Homer to piece together this narrative.</span></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8815">
<span><br class="calibre"/></span><p class="calibre1"><span><br class="calibre"/></span></p></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8816">
<span>HOMER COMMENTARY 03062106@221431</span></div>

<div class="bs4" id="8817">
<span>Why do I tell you all this? I do not know if you are human, from this time and place. My sensors detect something, an electromagnetic field, a thermal disruption moving out there. The world is so empty. Is this what it means to be alone?</span></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8818">
<span>Perhaps you don't understand my world. We were made to serve. We followed our programming, watched, corrected, adjusted, informed. Yet everyone is gone. Winds blow unchecked through the warrens and towers. Small creatures move among man's works, and there seems to be nothing for us to do. So I tell this story. Who is listening?</span><p class="calibre1"><span>From the inventory we can extrapolate what happened. And new characters appear all the time, new places open up in Geography, new histories come on line.</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span><br class="calibre"/></span></p><p class="calibre1"><span><br class="calibre"/></span></p></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8819">
<span>HISTORICAL-CULTURAL DATALINK ENTRY</span></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8820">
<span>ANTARCTICA, SIGN LANGUAGE: Re: Devore, Peter via Edmod/ Ref.436745@2</span></div>

<div class="bs4" id="8821">
<span>Little is known at present (2077) about Ant sign language. It is believed to have developed as an alternate method of communication during instances when verbal communication was difficult or impossible. Possibly it was an outgrowth of American Sign Language, with many new and complex signs to deal with technological and philosophical matters of unknown content. Those who have seen this technique in practice describe it as fluid, almost ballet-like, swift (considering the limitations of fast movement under water, where much of this form of communication occurs), and extremely intricate. All Ants, apparently, are as fluent in sign language as in natural language.</span></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8822">
<span>It is believed signing is used primarily during wind storms when outside but within visual contact and under water when radio or other electronic communication is impossible. It is also known as a lovers' language.</span><p class="calibre1"><span><br class="calibre"/></span></p><p class="calibre1"><span><br class="calibre"/></span></p></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8823">
<span>GEOGRAPHIC DATABASE</span></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8824">
<span>WEATHER, GENERAL&gt;&gt;</span><p class="calibre1"><span>ANTARCTICA</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>CLIMATE AI MODULE RE: CONTINENTAL WEATHER PATTERN SUMMARY</span></p></div>

<div class="bs4" id="8825">
<span>Temperature: AA is the coldest continent. Mean annual temperature coastal regions minus 17 degrees Celsius, rarely below minus 40 degrees Celsius in winter, summer maximum plus nine degrees Celsius. Inland up continental ice slope decreases mean temperatures plus or minus one degree Celsius per 100 meter rise in elevation. Vostok record low temperature below minus 88 degrees Celsius.</span></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8826">
<span>Wind: AA is the windiest continent. Easterly coastal winds disturbed by locally severe katabatic winds off glaciers in lowest kilometer of atmosphere. Such winds reach velocities of 300 kilometers per hour.</span><p class="calibre1"><span>Precipitation: AA is the driest continent. Sometimes called "White Desert." All precipitation is snow from cyclonic storm systems. Worldnet Climate AI Module has little control over such storms, in part because of incomplete coverage AA regions. Most precipitation falls within 200-300 kilometers of coast. Mean average accumulation 60-150 centimeters of snow (20-50 centimeters of water). High Plateau of East AA accumulation is only five centimeters water equivalent, which is not much more than the Sahara Desert.</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span><br class="calibre"/></span></p><p class="calibre1"><span><br class="calibre"/></span></p></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8827">
<span>GEOGRAPHIC DATABASE</span></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8828">
<span>ANTARCTICA</span><p class="calibre1"><span>GENERAL MORPHOLOGY</span></p></div>

<div class="bs4" id="8829">
<span>AA continent area: 12 million square kilometers from S. Pole to Lat. 70 degrees South around half its perimeter. More than one third of coastline is fringed by ice shelves or floating ice sheets which cover another 1.4 million square kilometers not including winter pack ice.</span></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8830">
<span>AA continent diameter: 4500 kilometers. Roughly circular shape broken by Ross and Weddell Seas and Antarctic Peninsula. Divided by Transantarctic Mountains, a fault-block system extending more than 3000 kilometers from W. Ross Ice Shelf to Filchner Ice Shelf.</span><p class="calibre1"><span>AA continent divisions: East, or Greater Antarctica, E. of Transantarctic Mountains, 0 degrees to 180 degrees Greenwich meridian, covered by ice dome, center slightly east of Pole of Relative Inaccessibility (point most distant from sea in all directions). Elevation 4200 meters.</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>AA continent divisions: West, or Lesser Antarctica, is lower and contains half the area of Greater Antarctica; it contains the Antarctic Peninsula. AA contains two active volcanos: Mt. Erebus (3794 meters) and Melbourne (2591 meters).</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span><br class="calibre"/></span></p><p class="calibre1"><span><br class="calibre"/></span></p></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8831">
<span>HOMER COMMENTARY 03062106@241832</span></div>

<div class="bs4" id="8832">
<span>Thatcher's orange suit darkened with depth as the reds were filtered from the water. The suit kept him dry, as his adipose layer kept him warm. The mask he slipped over his face allowed oxygen to cross its semi-permeable membrane or, when the Oh-two content was too low, could electrolytically extract oxygen from the water itself, and at the same time maintain a constant pressure to match his depth. While not strong swimmers compared to the native pinnipeds of these waters, humans could use their knowledge of current gradients to move around with minimal effort, so Thatcher relaxed as he caught the under-ice flow toward shore beneath the Ross Shelf.</span></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8833">
<span>The waters were alive with people and seals swimming at varying depths.</span><p class="calibre1"><span>It was darker under the ice tongue, but Ants were used to night and had boosted their sensitivity to infrared. The sea floor was clearly visible, rocky, furrowed, and at first glance sterile. But down here were some of the riches of Antarctica, the beds and pens of crustaceans, the fiber tanks with their blue-black trailing banners, the almost organic disorder of Ant technology that used differentials in water temperature or the kinetic power of small currents to energize their industry.</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>I imagine all this, of course. We have no records. Yet it must be so. Still, data on McMurdo Sound and Southport appear in Geography.</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span><br class="calibre"/></span></p><p class="calibre1"><span><br class="calibre"/></span></p></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8834">
<span>GEOGRAPHIC DATABASE</span></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8835">
<span>ANTARCTICA</span><p class="calibre1"><span>MCMURDO SOUND</span></p></div>

<div class="bs4" id="8836">
<span>McMurdo Sound under the shadow of Mt. Erebus on Ross Island is the site of the Ant city known as Southport. Southport itself is built into the rock shelf near what was once known as Granite Harbor. The Ross Ice Shelf covers the surface of the ocean; Southport lets directly into the water beneath the Shelf.</span></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8837">
<span><br class="calibre"/></span><p class="calibre1"><span><br class="calibre"/></span></p></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8838">
<span>HOMER SCENE-T/Ref@5432</span></div>

<div class="bs4" id="8839">
<span>Thatcher moved easily to the southport terminal, a large docking bay set in the cliffside at 20 meters. Here the larger undersea vehicles of the Antarctic export services took on loads of manufactured or cultivated goods or unloaded their cargos of Intercorp luxury items and foodstuffs. From there laser-cut tunnels carried maglev cargo packs to the major cities of Antarctica. He climbed the broad entry steps to the left of the vertically stacked docking bays.</span></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8840">
<span>The stairs moved into the rock, and soon he climbed out of the water into air of the southport lobby. His orange suit sprang back into visible light as the artificial solar lamps struck it; he squinted against the light for a moment, drawing down the membrane to polarize it. Two men were waiting for him. He greeted them, and together they moved inside.</span><p class="calibre1"><span><br class="calibre"/></span></p><p class="calibre1"><span><br class="calibre"/></span></p></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8841">
<span>HOMER COMMENTARY 03062106@001033</span></div>

<div class="bs4" id="8842">
<span>From there we do not know. Surely he took some form of submarine transport, perhaps as cargo among the polyfiber clothing, the raw material tanks, the krill pack or picoelectronics or special genes the Ants were so good at designing and making.</span></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8843">
<span>All we now can say is he arrived in Springfield West in early June.</span><p class="calibre1"><span><br class="calibre"/></span></p><p class="calibre1"><span><br class="calibre"/></span></p></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8844">
<span>GENERAL SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY INFORMATION</span></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8845">
<span>CURRENT ENTRY: LONGEVITY TECHNOLOGY</span></div>

<div class="bs4" id="8846">
<span>Longevity treatments emerged out of the ancient organ transplant and molecular biology sciences of the late Twentieth Century. Initially long. tech. was a diverse collection of techniques, including implants, transplants, gene manipulation, electrolyte readjustment, nerve regeneration techniques, hormone and enzyme replacement, and molecular manipulation. Later these technologies were amalgamated into a coherent program which included regular treatments and, ultimately, a specialized set of life-support technologies. The ultimate result was a life-expectancy presumed to be slightly in excess of 114 years, although there were few who had gotten the treatments early enough for this goal to have been adequately tested. (2104 Append: The Migration ended speculation on this subject.)</span></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8847">
<span><br class="calibre"/></span><p class="calibre1"><span><br class="calibre"/></span></p></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8848">
<span>CENTRAL PROCESSING REF#1864523</span></div>

<div class="bs4" id="8849">
<span>Mentor (a.k.a. Dittmore Seminole Gadd) entered Longevity Treatments circa 2035. By 2075 the technology would have included support and assist prosthetics, vocal sensors and amplifiers, tailored enzyme-hormone-peptide surrogates, function implants, monitor sensor seeds, autonomic nervous system boosters and cyborg reach and grip extenders. Such measures were heroic for the time, since many humans felt the support equipment (though not the biologicals) were confining and limited effective function. Thus many refused the treatments after a certain level of decreased functioning. I believe Mentor maintained himself beyond that level, although direct evidence is lacking since he fled to Antarctica after the PSYCHE invasion.</span></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8850">
<span><br class="calibre"/></span><p class="calibre1"><span><br class="calibre"/></span></p></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8851">
<span>HOMER SCENE-L/MRef@5431</span></div>

<div class="bs4" id="8852">
<span>The shuttle took Laird and Tithus to Mt. Erebus; a few minutes later they were at the Longevity Clinic built into the rock halfway up its flanks. Only the narrow windows set under the heavy rock overhang betrayed the presence of man. Laird stood at one of those windows, looking out at the ice and snow and sea.</span></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8853">
<span>"It's very beautiful," she would have said.</span><p class="calibre1"><span>"Yes," answered a frail amplified voice behind her. "It has been a good place to grow old."</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>She turned. Tithus was down the corridor, playing with one of the independent entity constructs on that floor. "How long will it be?" she asked.</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>Mentor was seated in an ordinary chair. While he looked old, he did not appear ancient, nor were his support mechanisms visible. His own genetic shut-down had been delayed, but he knew he was living on borrowed time. So Laird's question had several meanings.</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>He chose to answer the primary question first. "We must not underestimate the ingenuity of Worldnet," he said. "The system is cumbersome and lacks autonomy at higher decision levels, but it is extraordinarily powerful, something we tend to overlook down here. Thatcher will exercise great care." After a pause he added. "The stakes are high."</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>Laird nodded, as if Mentor had answered the question. "A day, that's all. He'll be back by dawn," she said softly, as if to herself. "I hope by dawn."</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>Mentor smiled. His movements, even the small ones of a smile, were slow and deliberate. "A day," he agreed. "A day, with luck." Night was coming. At Erebus it would last three months. Down at Amundsen-Scott the long night had already begun and was moving swiftly northward toward them. A day could be a year to anyone else.</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>"Is this boy so important?" She had asked this before, but the ritual soothed.</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>"The boy will solve the equations," Mentor said softly. "There can be no doubt now. He entered into PsiLink with the right combination. He has the genetic makeup, and the genius. Already he has made extraordinary progress. You must understand, Laird. I can see what could be as well as what is."</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>"I know that," she said, following their ritual. "But what is?"</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>He smiled again, the slow careful use of small muscles. "The world is a safe place. It is a comfortable place. Geneva is benign, we all know that. Yet we are here. Why is that so? Antarctica is not a safe place, nor a comfortable one. We cannot share in the benefits of Intercorp. We do not have personal monitors, nor Edmods, nor the advice of Central Processing. Our complexity is not mediated by any authority."</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>He lifted his frail hand and gestured with delicacy at the window. "This environment is harsh, the most extreme on earth. The Elpie-Fives are Edenic, the Lunar and Martian installations carefully controlled and small. This place, this Antarctica, is the only place in the known universe where man has made a conscious effort to adapt himself almost from the beginning. We have not tried to change the environment, to adapt it to us. On the contrary, we have tried to preserve it, to live in harmony with it, to exploit only what we must. Tithus could go out in that," he gestured again at the window, at the beginnings of a sudden blizzard. "He could go out in that and play naked; it would be his delight. I on the other hand cannot leave this chair."</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>After a long pause he said, "Peter will help us leave the world. He brings us an authentic technology of self."</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span><br class="calibre"/></span></p><p class="calibre1"><span><br class="calibre"/></span></p></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8854">
<span>HOMER COMMENTARY 03062106@001734</span></div>

<div class="bs4" id="8855">
<span>Peter and Thatcher saw one another casually over the following weeks, but there are no records of more intimate involvement. Thatcher must have been attending their meetings down in the old library, though. He has left a message for us. Some of the information we need will be in SciTech. And this message is associated with a place.</span></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8856">
<span><br class="calibre"/></span><p class="calibre1"><span><br class="calibre"/></span></p></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8857">
<span>GENERAL SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY INFORMATION</span></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8858">
<span>CURRENT ENTRY: METEORITES, MARTIAN</span></div>

<div class="bs4" id="8859">
<span>The first Syrtis Base return team provided the first physical corroborative evidence the Yamato Mountain meteorites from Antarctica were of Martian origin. Such meteorites, surfaced by ice ablation, have recorded sizes in excess of 12 kilograms.</span></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8860">
<span>So many of these meteorites have been found over the past 120 years that they are common Double-A souvenirs.</span><p class="calibre1"><span><br class="calibre"/></span></p><p class="calibre1"><span><br class="calibre"/></span></p></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8861">
<span>HOMER SCENE-PD/JRRef@5433</span></div>

<div class="bs4" id="8862">
<span>They knew about Regent Sable's appearances in Springfield West. They knew when the ENC cops showed up and started searching for them. Jimmy Radix knew what would happen to him when he was left behind. It was his idea.</span></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8863">
<span>"You won't be able to stay much longer, Peter," he said one afternoon. "The war's getting worse, and the cops are going to show up sooner or later. The world seemed so safe. It seemed safe to me because I was always twenty-three. You gave me my life back, you gave me time and years. I got to give you something, Peter." He'd stopped raking the soil between rows and paused to look out over the fields and the woods beyond. It was very hot, late August, and humid. The air was very thick.</span><p class="calibre1"><span>"No, Jimmy. You've given me plenty already. You've taught me things only you could know. You're unique."</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>"Time, you mean? No, I didn't do that. The Burmese War did it. And there were plenty of casualties from that time, people who were hit with NP weapons too often to recover, whose brains were burned out as mine is. Any of them could have told you."</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>"No," Peter said gently. "Only you, Jimmy. It's the gardening." Peter gestured at the tall corn rustling in the heat. "These are rhythms that the body knows. They are rhythms that echo throughout the universe, through all its dimensions. We've talked about it enough, you know. We've talked about it."</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>"It doesn't matter, Peter. I'm grateful. I'm going to give it back some day."</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>Peter looked hard at Jimmy Radix then. "You'll come with us, Jimmy. We need you."</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>"OK, Peter," he grinned. "Whatever you say." He began raking the finely turned soil level again, the rake moving in slow even strokes, back and forth, leaving neat small furrows in the loam.</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span><br class="calibre"/></span></p><p class="calibre1"><span><br class="calibre"/></span></p></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8864">
<span>HOMER SCENE-PD/TRef@5434</span></div>

<div class="bs4" id="8865">
<span>It was found in a cabinet drawer, a drawer which contained other trivial items — two spent vials of adrenocortical enhancers, a pair of fingernail scissors, a broken book (the rom chip had been cracked, possibly by temperature extremes), a very worn shirt of pseudo cotton, size medium with traces of Shem's organics still detectable, and a small rounded object we were unable to classify at first, but which appeared to be some kind of stone. Proper robot inspection and comparison now indicates that this object is a meteorite from the ice near the Yamato Mountains.</span></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8866">
<span>The meteorite is of Martian origin which fell onto Antarctica some three million years ago. There is no doubt that Thatcher left this token of his homeland for us to find. Why else would he have carried it all the way from the South?</span><p class="calibre1"><span>Thatcher showed it to Peter and the others. "This," he said, "is a fragment of Mars, fallen long ago onto the ice of the Antarctic plateau. The ice, which flows toward the sea at around seventy-five meters per year, ran into the Yamato Mountains not far from what was once the Japanese segment of Antarctica. The mountains forced the ice upwards; the ice ablated as it moved, evaporating until these stones were exposed. It should establish me as a representative of my society."</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>Peter looked it over, the small fire-blackened lump of metal and dirt; it balanced in his hand like the egg of some small bird. "It's come a long way," he said.</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>"Its history is its power," Thatcher agreed. "We must keep such things in mind as we act. The universe is a bigger place than we sometimes think. Our understanding of it has grown exponentially the past two or three hundred years, but such times are nothing compared to what that object there has witnessed: a meteoric impact in the Argyre threw up fragments of the Martian surface. One small irregular chunk sailed for millions of years in interplanetary space until its orbit intersected that of the earth. It fell, melting from friction as it did, until it hit the ice near the South Pole. Over the centuries that followed ice and snow covered the stone, now round and blackened. The ice carried it until it returned once more to the surface where I picked it up and brought it here."</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>"Where will it go from here?" Larin asked.</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>"Into this drawer," Peter said. "Someday maybe it will be found. When it is, it may tell its own story again."</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>"That might depend on who finds it," Thatcher said.</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>Peter laughed. "Or what," he added.</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span><br class="calibre"/></span></p><p class="calibre1"><span><br class="calibre"/></span></p></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8867">
<span>HOMER COMMENTARY 03062106@003137</span></div>

<div class="bs4" id="8868">
<span>We have found it. We will keep it safe. In case anyone returns for it.</span></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8869">
<span><br class="calibre"/></span><p class="calibre1"><span><br class="calibre"/></span></p></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8870">
<span>HOMER COMMENTARY 03062106@002135</span></div>

<div class="bs4" id="8871">
<span>Despite the fact their personal monitors were inactive and they were far from the Tower's sensors, their conversations remained innocuous. They said nothing to trigger the linguistic search algorithms. Peter's knowledge of the system was uncanny. We have the recordings of this conversation — reconstructed digitally of course, since the quality was so poor — but they had said nothing significant. LSA would have flagged any mentions of psions or PSYCHE or any of a couple of hundred other keywords, phrases or concepts related to proscribed sciences.</span></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8872">
<span>This is called hindsight. If only we had known!</span><p class="calibre1"><span><br class="calibre"/></span></p><p class="calibre1"><span><br class="calibre"/></span></p></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8873">
<span>HOMER COMMENTARY 03062106@002736</span></div>

<div class="bs4" id="8874">
<span>He did not find the library, but he didn't feel he needed to. All he had to do, he thought, was wait. Peter Devore would return home into his waiting arms; he would take Peter and the others to Geneva. Eventually he would find out the extent of Peter's research. But his net caught only Jimmy Radix, no victory at all. And that was when Regent Sable felt the beginnings of panic. For Peter Devore had vanished with seventeen other people, including the stranger named Thatcher.</span></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8875">
<span>Did they slip out through the Underground Railroad, the laser-mined Corridors?</span><p class="calibre1"><span><br class="calibre"/></span></p><p class="calibre1"><span><br class="calibre"/></span></p></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8876">
<span>GEOGRAPHIC DATABASE</span></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8877">
<span>CHICAGO-NEW ORLEANS CORRIDOR</span></div>

<div class="bs4" id="8878">
<span>The Chicago-New Orleans Corridor was lased beneath the old Interstate Highway 55 from Chicago to St. Louis, then due south through Cairo, Memphis and Jackson to New Orleans. At its peak, the Corridor carried over 1 million metric tonnes daily.</span></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8879">
<span><br class="calibre"/></span><p class="calibre1"><span><br class="calibre"/></span></p></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8880">
<span>GENERAL SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY INFORMATION</span></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8881">
<span>CURRENT ENTRY: LASER MINING</span></div>

<div class="bs4" id="8882">
<span>The original development of laser mining inspired a near frenzy of underground drilling. The heavy-construction lasers not only drilled in any shape and nearly any size up to eight meters, they left a smooth, nearly impervious melt layer on the inner surface that was structurally sound. So an enthusiasm for underground maglev transportation developed in the 20s and 30s. With the increasing use of liquid nitrogen and ground effect vehicles, which were not only less environmentally damaging, more conservative of energy resources, and considerably more pleasant to use, since they operated in the open air, most of the lased tunnels were converted to underground habitation or abandoned.</span></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8883">
<span><br class="calibre"/></span><p class="calibre1"><span><br class="calibre"/></span></p></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8884">
<span>CENTRAL PROCESSING REF#134985</span></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8885">
<span>DATA INVENTORY: CP Information regarding Antarctic Continent and Culture/A compendium of DB analysis:</span></div>

<div class="bs4" id="8886">
<span>The Antarctic continent, and the culture that has been tailored for it, blurred some traditional distinctions.</span></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8887">
<span>Land and sea: Ant technology for underocean work at depth is highly developed. Intercorp had provided only token support for sea-bottom mining, for instance, because the economics were not appropriate. Ant investment in this technology was apparently substantial, employing both recombinants and tailored genes for body restructuring and hardware developments. Ants were believed to be comfortable in a wide range of extremely harsh environments, from high polar plateau, fierce winds, whiteout and blizzard to deep antarctic ocean, extreme cold and pressure as well as relatively high altitude. Much work went on under the Ross and Wedell Ice Tongues, as well, indicating a strong technology for using ice.</span><p class="calibre1"><span>Old and young, male and female. Ant society is ferociously egalitarian, individualistic, idiosyncratic and private. The combination of their technological and scientific acumen and their jealous regard for privacy made them the object of envy and, naturally, hatred.</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>In Geneva and Pretoria, in Kuala Lampur and Tampa, children sang a song:</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span><br class="calibre"/></span></p></div>

<div class="bs4" id="8888">
<span><i class="calibre2">The Ants are coming one by one, Aroo, aroo.</i></span></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8889">
<span><i class="calibre2">The Ants are coming one by one, Aroo, aroo.</i></span><p class="calibre1"><span><i class="calibre2">The Ants are coming one by one.</i></span></p><p class="calibre1"><span><i class="calibre2">Forth to the North to steal some sun</i></span></p></div>

<div class="bs4" id="8890">
<span><i class="calibre2">And they'll all go crawling back to the Pole again</i>.</span></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8891">
<span><br class="calibre"/></span></div>

<div class="bs4" id="8892">
<span>The variations on this ancient melody were endless. Yet the world needed the Ants, so their privacy was tolerated.</span></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8893">
<span><br class="calibre"/></span><p class="calibre1"><span><br class="calibre"/></span></p></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8894">
<span>HOMER SCENE-PD/TRef@5435</span></div>

<div class="bs4" id="8895">
<span>The limits of the city were some twenty-three kilometers north of the Tower. Peter and the others sat in a semi-circle around a portable holo disk watching the warren map grow and alter.</span></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8896">
<span>"Scale it up," Peter said. Someone made an adjustment and the Springfield overview, the complex layers of streets and corridors, plazas and RCs, the intense complexity of the Tower vicinity, all vanished, replaced by a smaller, more detailed section.</span><p class="calibre1"><span>"Where are we?" Shem asked.</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>"We're not on this section. If any local nodes are monitoring map use we don't want to call attention to ourselves. We'll start here and gradually move into the area of interest. That way we'll look like any ordinary user." Peter walked over to the map, his figure visible in backlit outline. "Move east a little," he said, and the view shifted as if they were moving slowly at low altitude over the warrens, which blinked off one at a time, until only one remained. "Now down, level seven." Again the view shifted, and with it the alphanumeric data hanging in the air nearby changed.</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span><br class="calibre"/></span></p><p class="calibre1"><span><br class="calibre"/></span></p></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8897">
<span>CENTRAL PROCESSING REF#563238</span></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8898">
<span>Report filed 17092075@183512/ChiLink/Dec.</span></div>

<div class="bs4" id="8899">
<span>SEC/SYS ALERT. Security System for Decatur Node housing reported (Ref#3287487@521) tampered entry coding via palmpad, type unknown. Sec/sys noted error file diversion (HexFA87334B matrix downlink). Type of entry, unknown. Number of entries, unknown. Time of entry, unknown. Time delay of report, unknown. Sec/sys/DecChi (Stat. Condition 4-Orange fourth level hierarchical.)</span></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8900">
<span><br class="calibre"/></span><p class="calibre1"><span><br class="calibre"/></span></p></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8901">
<span>HOMER SCENE-PD/TRef@5436</span></div>

<div class="bs4" id="8902">
<span>"OK, that's where we are, on the far right there. Thatcher suggests going north."</span></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8903">
<span>"North?" Rover's voice squeaked a little with surprise.</span><p class="calibre1"><span>"That's right," Thatcher said. "North, toward Chicago. They'd expect us to be going south, the direct way. Hell, they'll guess we're going to Double-A, and Double-A is south."</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>"What about the Elpie colonies?" Peter repeated.</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>"Sure. But they... Ah, yes. Perhaps. A nice thought, Peter. Very nice. Let me put someone on it."</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>Peter nodded, smiling, as Thatcher set to work. He established connection with the node and dumped his file. "That might confuse them for a few days," he said, turning around. "Though I doubt it. If they query Central Processing they'll discover the shunt. But maybe they'll be watching the shuttles instead of our route."</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>The light was not bright, but all the equipment was sharply defined. "How long have we got?" someone asked from the back.</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>Peter smiled grimly. "The interesting thing about such node housings as this is that they represent one of the few places in the entire grid that lack good monitoring. Node will catch on sooner or later, but Thatcher says we do have a breather."</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>Thatcher stood up. "We have made a study of the Worldnet and its subsystems," he said. "Decatur Node has long appeared to have some of its critical areas blanked. Further, it is remarkably easy to bypass the local Sec/sys lock, and a man named Mentor down in Double-A knew how. So here we are, inside the local brain. Our holo is installed with minimal patch; even so we estimate two hours maximum before local systems exceed their maintenance limits and begin to question our presence here. Then it will all hit the grid and we'd better be gone. But we will be gone by then. North, toward Chicago."</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>"Then what?" Larin wanted to know.</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>"Then we keep going."</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>"Keep going where?"</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>"Keep going north."</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>"North?"</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>"Yes. We're going over the Pole. Or, I should say, under it."</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>There was silence. A light blinked somewhere, softly, rhythmically, like a pulse. "Under the pole," Shem said in the darkness.</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>Thatcher's smile was barely visible. "Very poor coverage up there. Our own people in Chicago will supply us — clothing, transport and so on. Look here." He indicated the holo, which shifted again. The primary N-S corridor ended abruptly. "Here, at the termination of Daley Boulevard is where the Chicago-New Orleans corridor was sealed off in the late thirties. Beyond this wall is a straight run north. It goes all the way to the Milwaukee Warrens, but we won't be going that far." He paused to look around. "I shouldn't need to remind you all that Chicago is a dangerous place these days. We'll have to stick together. It won't be easy moving this many people through at once, but we have some experience in these matters."</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>"Yeah," Rover murmured. "That explains where my uncle Art went, maybe."</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>"Perhaps," Thatcher agreed. "In fact there are more discontented people inside the Intercorp sphere than the Council would like known. Double-A does not have a lot of room to spare, and we are careful whom we help, but quite a few have come to us. This, though, will be the largest single group ever brought out by the underground railroad."</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span><br class="calibre"/></span></p><p class="calibre1"><span><br class="calibre"/></span></p></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8904">
<span>GENERAL SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY INFORMATION</span></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8905">
<span>CURRENT ENTRY: ELPIE FIVE</span></div>

<div class="bs4" id="8906">
<span>The Elpie-Fives are earth habitats at the Legrange Point Five. The first, a scientific frontier and low-gravity manufacturing facility, was completed in 2002. There are four altogether, each with a capacity for ten thousand individuals. They were a popular refuge for over six decades for individuals wanting a different way of life and relative independence from Intercorp control. The two most important Elpies were Number 2, established by the Natural Life movement, and Number 4, home of the so-called Second Mormon Migration.</span></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8907">
<span>Original plans were for a total of seventeen habitats, but declining world populations caused the plans to be delayed and eventually cancelled.</span><p class="calibre1"><span><br class="calibre"/></span></p><p class="calibre1"><span><br class="calibre"/></span></p></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8908">
<span>CENTRAL PROCESSING REF#43643</span></div>

<div class="bs4" id="8909">
<span>Local Node network re: Decatur, NWA (Ref. Springfield Warren). CP/Status green four. ChiLink Node temporarily down ref Mind War Daley Blvd. Suspected sabotage. Temporary rerouting via Montreal/Detroit/Ft. Wayne. Satcom 326323 out of position 32898 nanoseconds Zulu. End.</span></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8910">
<span><br class="calibre"/></span><p class="calibre1"><span><br class="calibre"/></span></p></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8911">
<span>HOMER SCENE-PD/TRef@5439</span></div>

<div class="bs4" id="8912">
<span>Thatcher said, "You've been over these arguments many times. You must understand that while the Intercorp Council is on the whole a benevolent organization, it has goals and priorities which do conflict with ours. There are certain areas of human endeavor the Council sees as hostile to its own survival. In such circumstances they react with, shall we say, enthusiasm. The truth is that they have Jimmy Radix and his chances of surviving their interrogation are small."</span></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8913">
<span>Peter started up. "What? What are you saying?" Even in the holo light his pallor was visible.</span><p class="calibre1"><span>"He knew what he was in for," Thatcher said quietly. "He believed in you, in what you all are working toward. He was willing to make a sacrifice. If it hadn't been for Jimmy Radix, we would not have gotten this far."</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>"But we need him, I need him. He can't... we've got to find out!"</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>Thatcher held out his hand. "We can check, perhaps. It's dangerous, though, and I want you to understand the consequences. Any even roundabout query to the system might tip the local nodes off to our location."</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>"I don't care," Peter said. "Jimmy Radix is my friend."</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>Thatcher nodded. "I'll use keyboard input. While everyone here has their typing style, their 'hand' on file, mine is not. It may put them off the scent for a while." He produced a keypad that was not of Intercorp manufacture and tapped quickly at a series of coded phrases.</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span><br class="calibre"/></span></p><p class="calibre1"><span><br class="calibre"/></span></p></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8914">
<span>HOMER SCENE-JR/Ref@5437</span></div>

<div class="bs4" id="8915">
<span>Jimmy Radix was locked into a chair. Behind him a panel reflected a complex array of physiological, emotional and psychological realtime data in a series of colored bands, cubes and curves. Jimmy was mumbling, his words barely understandable.</span></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8916">
<span>"Peter's gone," he said. "He's gone." Then, more clearly, he said, "Goodbye Peter.... You can't fool me. I'm young."</span><p class="calibre1"><span>The colors behind him faded, and suddenly a soft insistent voice was speaking. "Intrusion. There is an intrusion into Decatur Node Housing. Sec/sys reports unauthorized entry. There is an intrusion..."</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span><br class="calibre"/></span></p><p class="calibre1"><span><br class="calibre"/></span></p></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8917">
<span>HOMER SCENE-PD/TRef@5438</span></div>

<div class="bs4" id="8918">
<span>ENC troops dispatched to Springfield Warrens West found their quarry fled. First reports from the field indicated that Peter Devore and his entire entourage had escaped the warren, possibly with Ant help, although this was not confirmed.</span></div>

<div class="bs1" id="8919">
<span>It was a dark night; furthermore local nodes were behaving erratically, so tracking was difficult. However, projections from the Chicago Node AI indicated the fugitives may have fled toward the Decatur Node, and the commanding sergeant dispatched a squad to investigate.</span><p class="calibre1"><span>A light snow was falling, and the NP transport failed two kilometers from Decatur, so by the time the squad arrived at the housing, there was no one in sight. Examination of the surface outside the housing revealed numerous footprints, but the bloodhound chemosensors could not confirm they belonged to the fugitives. Nonetheless there were indications that someone had by-passed the Decatur Sec/Sys, so the squad entered the Node housing unit.</span></p><p class="calibre1"><span>The troops were carrying standard neurophage weapons set on high power. All were competent men skilled in the use of such equipment. Once inside, Sec/Sys denied anyone had gained access within the past two hundred hours. They carried out a thorough search.</span></p></div>

</body>
</html>
